
# 2020-08-13

Video Topics: interface, abstract class, design patterns, interface segregation
principle (SOL**I**D)

## 1. What is an interface and its purpose?

An interface is a _contract_ ensuring the input/output typing of an entity's
properties and methods. It can be used as a sort of _wrapper_ type. An entity's
properties and methods are known as _signature lines_. An interface includes the
_minimum_ signature lines of a model. A model using the interface can have
additional signature lines, but must have the minimum signature lines listed in
the interface. Each signature line defines an output type and input type.

**Shortcut: generate interface with `cmd` + `.` + `Extract interface`**

Parent classes inheritance must preface interface assignment.

```c#
public class PhysicalProductModel : PhysicalProductBase, IProductModel
```

Although a class can only inherit from one parent class, it can implement
multiple interfaces because interfaces are simply _contracts_.

```c#
public class DigitalProductModel : IProductModel, IDigitalProductModel
```

Alternatively, an interface can build on top of another interface.

```c#
public interface IDigitalProductModel : IProductModel
```

The `DigitalProductModel` below will have all the signature lines of both the
`IDigitalProductModel` and the `IProductModel`.

```c#
public class DigitalProductModel : IDigitalProductModelIDigitalProductModel
```

> **Side note**: the `digital` variable below is set to the `prod` object if
> `prod is IDigitalProductModel`.

```c#
if (prod is IDigitalProductModel digital)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"For the { digital.Title } you have { digital.TotalDownloadsLeft } downloads left");
}
```

## 2. What is an abstract class and what is it used for?

Abstract classes are parent classes that _abstract_ methods for method
inheritance/overriding, DRYer code, and reusable code. They are a blend of
interfaces and a base parent class. You define an abstract class with the
`abstract` keyword, like so:

```c#
public abstract class DataAccess
{
    public string LoadConnectionString(string name)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Load Connection String");
        return "testConnectionString";
    }
}
```

You cannot instantiate an abstract class. When inheriting an abstract class, the
typings of the child classes are then _blended together_. Abstract class methods
define the typings of a child class' methods with syntax similar to interfaces.
For example, the `abstract` keyword is used and the example below defines the
input/output typing of the `LoadData` and `SaveData` methods:

```c#
public abstract class DataAccess
{
    public string LoadConnectionString(string name)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Load Connection String");
        return "testConnectionString";
    }

    // Similar syntax to interface
    public abstract void LoadData(string sql);
    public abstract void SaveData(string sql);
}
```

The `SqliteDataAccess` child class that inherits from the abstract `DataAccess`
class would then need to use the `override` keyword to actually define the
`LoadData` and `SaveData` methods.

> **Note**: you can only `override` a method if the parent method is defined
> with `virtual` or `abstract`. Defining a method as `virtual` means that you
> don't have to override it, but you can.

```c#
public class SqliteDataAccess : DataAccess
{
    // Can override (virtual) DataAccess.LoadConnectionString
    public override string LoadConnectionString(string name)
    {
        string output = base.LoadConnectionString(name);
        output += " (from SQLite)";
        return output;
    }

    // Needs to override (abstract) DataAccess.LoadData
    public override void LoadData(string sql)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Loading SQLite Data");
    }

    // Needs to override (abstract) DataAccess.SaveData
    public override void SaveData(string sql)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Saving data to SQLite");
    }
}
```

Just like an interface, an instance of the `SqliteDataAccess` class can be typed
as `DataAccess`. The `db` instance below would inherit the
`DataAccess.LoadConnectionString` method and reference its internal
`SqliteDataAccess.LoadData` and `SqliteDataAccess.SaveData` methods.

```c#
DataAccess db = new SqliteDataAccess();
```

## 3. Find an example of an interface in Titan.
### How it works
### Why we used it in that specific scenario

## 4. Find an example in Titan of where we might want to implement an interface.
### Why would an interface be beneficial in that scenario?
### Bonus: implement that interface.

## 5. What's the Interface Segregation Principle (ISP)?

The Interface Segregation Principle is the practice of not having one general
monolothic interface, and having modular interfaces that are combined instead.

### Is there an example of that principle in practice in Titan?
